LRS - Lowest cost option with basic protection against server rack and drive failures. Recommended for non-critical scenarios.
Geo-Redundant storage - Intermediate option with failover capabilities in a secondary region Recommended for backup scenarios.
Zone-redundant storage -Intermediate option with protection against data center-level failures. Recommended for high availability scenarios.
Geo-zone-redundant storage - Optimal data protection solution that includes the offerings of both GRS and ZRS. Recommended for critical data scenarios.

Scenario 1
==========
Your company currently stores large volumes of structured and semi structured data in an on-premises data warehouses and file servers. Leadership has decided to migrate this data to Azure Data Lake STorage Gen2 to enable better scalability, analytics and integration with other Azure services.
How would you approach migrating data from the on-premise systems to Azure Data Lake Storage Gen2?
Integration Runtime - Is a compute or a resource which is required to migrate your data. Which provides the necessary computation resources to migrate your data and perform all the data flows to perform all the data transformations. Basically the activities within the Azure Data Factory.

autoResolveIntegrationRuntime - The best integration Runtime to perform all the operations within Azure network.
When you want to pull your data form OnPremise to Azure cloud you need to create SELF HOSTED INTEGRATTION RUNTIME, which will be managed by me. Pefofrm data flows, data movement and dispatch activities to external compute.

Azure-SSIS - Lieft and shift existing SSIS pacjages to execute in Azure. Before Cloud Azure SSIS was the primary source is the integration between your SQL servers with the external provders now we use ADF.
Airflow - Use this for running your existsing DAG's

Once you create the self-hosted Integration Runtime we need to install the package on our local machine and then we need to paste that particular code which it provides to us and then connection will be successful.

Follow up question - STeps are fine but in real life i as a developer will be using the company laptop now if we want to transfer some data from your machine from your laptop hoe other developers can do that? 
In real world we wont be using our machines. We will be using something called as virtual machines/servers and we create those virtual machines/virtual servers as our itegration runtime machines. So instead of downloading the integration runtime on local we will be doing same on virtual machines and this mahcine will behave like a integration runtime once you provide the key.

When you see throtling like CPU is >90% ..? - You can scale up your virtual machines so that your mahcine can handle the load.
Once you create IRS -> you can pic your destination and select your SELF HOSTED SSIR.

SCenario 2
==========
Your company receives daily exchange rate data from third-party financial service through a REST API. This API returns data in JSON format and requires an authentication token that is refreshed every 60 seconds.
How would you design and implement ths solution using Azure Data Factory ? Walk through the key components and steps you would use.
In ADF -> create pipeline -> select WEB activity / alternate to POSTMAN -> give your URL -> and get the response -> to store the data somewhere send the output via COPY ACTIVITY and select the input as REST with its LS and the sink with its LS.
  Incase of json data under the mapping it wont select the main key and we need to include as it treats as different entity uncheck the boxes and check again to import schema.
Note - if the response is not in the form of JSON, if in csv,  will you use REST API ? No, you should use HTTP CONNECTION , iT IS A recommended approach suggested by Miccrosoft that if we are gettubg the data directly as a response not in the form of JSON , Your always use HTTP.Because it will treat that as a data and dump and bring it to your destination data lake. You can use WEB activity but it needs lots of transformation logic. So it is recommended to use if you are getting data in the form of delimited text directly in the API calls 

Scenario 3
============
You're working on an ELT pipeline in a cloud-based data platform likeAzure datafactory, AWS Glue, or Databricks. One of the pipeline activities is an API call to fetch data from a third-party service. This API is known o occasionlly fail due to temporary network glitches or rate limiting issues. How would you design this pipeline activity to handle intermittent failures gracefully without rerunning the entire pipeline?





















































































































































































































































